---
layout: page
title: Supporting Statement
permalink: cv/statement.html
---

I have excellent interpersonal skills and regularly liaise with colleagues in IT and with members of the Academic community. I am able to develop positive working relationships through effective communication and the maintenance of a positive outlook to my work. I always maintain a professional approach in all aspects of communication, and I have excellent interpersonal skills which I use every day with the many users of the services I provide and with colleagues throughout the University. I can present complex technical information in a way which makes it easy to understand, and regularly provide training and advice to colleagues in the use of the systems I develop. I have written user and developer guidance for the software I have developed, and I regularly communicate with external suppliers to ensure that expected standards are maintained in the work they carry out.

I have a practical approach to problem solving and have been engaged in numerous projects in my own company and at the University which have required these skills. I regularly need to analyse the needs of research projects in order to provide effective solutions to problems. An example is a recent research project where I was asked to contribute to the detail of a research funding bid. The process had reached an impasse, where a colleague in the data service, and externally appointed user experience designer and the PI could not agree a way forward. I was able to suggest a possible solution using my exoerience of repository systems, data management and website development which achieved a separation of concerns between using the data for research and presentation. This utlilised skills and knowledge from a project I was involved with in the library service (RoaDMaP) which involved assessing different solutions to provide a technical solution to Research Data Management. I maintian a healthy working relationship with colleagues in the Research Data Management Service (based in the library).

I have programming skills in PHP, Python, Perl, JavaScript, HTML/CSS and XML. I also have extensive knowledge of Windows, Mac and Linux operating systems and software, web server and database configuration and administration, code editors and IDEs and multimedia editing software. I continually strive to increase my knowledge and skills through researching and evaluating emerging technologies, including both hardware and software. I am committed to gain further professional qualifications through self-study, education and training. I am committed to the development of effective working practices, and regularly present my work in this area to colleagues as an example of best practice. This includes recent presentations on the use of workflows in source code management using git, the use of pipelines in Azure DevOps for Continuous Integration, and the use of Node.js to automate development processes.

I currently work in the Application Development team at the University of Leeds and manage a WordPress website development service which is used to create small websites for Research Projects, Research Centres and conferences. I maintain the University's WordPress theme and associated plugins, and develop new plugins and themes for the service. I also maintain other applications at the University, including custom systems developed by external agencies (mainly based on Laravel), and legacy systems utilising a range of different technologies.

This WordPress website development service is based on the work I carried out between 2010 and 2016 while working for two of the nine faculties at the University. This work was entirely self-motivated and based on a careful analysis of the needs of these two faculties. There were a large number of old websites which were proving difficult to maintain, and a steady stream of requests for new simple websites where budgets were not sufficient to engage third parties to produce them. I had some previous experience of using WordPress, and started a service for one faculty which grew to host a number of research centres and projects. This drew the attention of the IT manager in the other faculty, and we decided to expand the service to cover both, and also move the main school websites within the faculty to WordPress as a temporary solution until the project to move all school websites to a central system took place (this happened in 2018 - 6 years later).

The service grew to host over 200 websites by 2015, at which point I co-wrote a business case to provide the service for all the faculties in the University. As part of this, I prepared cost benefits analysis reports for options to move the service to a commercial web hosting provider or continue providing the service in-house. I made recommendations for different suppliers presenting a MoSCoW anaylisis of their services, and it was eventually decided that WP Engine would be used to provide hosting. The service now hosts over 500 websites, and over 150 sites were created in 2018. I am currently preparing tender documents to move this service to new hosting providers using a two-tier approach, and performing an audit on the current service to establish Service Level Agreements and internal charging structures.

Shortly after the service was launched in August 2015, a major security breach severely affected the hosting service within the University, and I moved over 80 sites to the new service in the space of 3 months. I also helped the IT security team to diagnose the source of the security breach, and analyse the nature of the compromise in order to prevent the spread of the infection (through backdoors and XSS) using my  knowledge of IT security and information security standards.

I have a sound knowledge of the Software Development Lifecycle, and have an ITIL foundation qualification. The University is striving towards adopting best practices in a number of key areas, and I am chiefly engaged in the Change Management process in my current role. I welcome the opportunities this post will provide to expand my knowledge of project management, solutions architecture and business analysis, and welcome the opportunity to study TOGAF and its related disciplines.

