---
layout: post
title: Christmas cake
excerpt: Traditional recipe with marzipan and royal icing
category: recipes
tag: cakes
---

## ingredients

### For the cake

* 450g currants
* 175g sultanas
* 175g raisins
* 100g chopped glacé cherries
* 50g mixed chopped candied peel
* 100ml brandy
* 225g plain flour
* &frac12; teaspoon salt
* &frac12; level teaspoon nutmeg, freshly grated
* &frac12; level teaspoon ground mixed spice
* 225g dark brown soft sugar
* 1 tbsp black treacle
* 225g butter
* 4 large eggs
* 50g chopped almonds (skin on)
* zest of 1 lemon and 1 orange

### 4For the marzipan

* 175g golden caster sugar
* 280g icing sugar
* 450g ground almonds
* 2 eggs, beaten
* 4 drops almond essence
* 1 tsp brandy
* 3 tbsp apricot jam

### For the royal icing

* 500g icing sugar, sifted
* 3 large egg whites
* 1 teaspoon glycerine

## method
 
1. Mix the fruits and peel with the brandy and leave to soak overnight in a sealed container.
2. Heat the oven to 140&deg;C (120&deg;C fan assisted), 280&deg;F/240&deg;F, Gas Mark 1.
3. Sift the flour, salt and spices into a very large mixing bowl.
4. Warm the sugar, treacle and butter in a pan until melted and add to the flour.
5. Add the beaten eggs and mix with an electric hand whisk until everything is smooth and fluffy.
6. Gradually fold in the pre-soaked fruit mixture, chopped nuts and the grated lemon and orange zests.
7. Grease and line a 20cm / 8in round spring form cake tin with greaseproof paper.
8. Transfer the cake mixture into the prepared tin, and wrap the tin with brown paper, leaving a hole in the top (to prevent the outside of the cake from scorching).
9. Bake on the lowest shelf of the oven for at least 4 hours until the cake feels springy in the centre when lightly touched.
10. Place in an airtight container, and periodically feed the cake with brandy - put some holes in the cake with cocktail sticks to help it all sink in.

## icing

1. Mix the dry ingredients for the marzipan in a large bowl,  make a well in the middle, and tip in the eggs almond extract and brandy.
2. Cut the wet ingredients into the dry with a cutlery knife, dust the surface with icing sugar, then knead the marzipan briefly with your hands to a smooth dough. Don’t overdo it. Add a bit more icing sugar if it seems too wet. Shape into a ball, then wrap and chill in the fridge for 30 minutes.
3. Warm the apricot jam in a pan until nice an runny, and cover the cake with the jam.
4. Dust a surface with icing sugar, roll out the marzipan, and cover the cake.
5. For the royal icing, place the egg whites in a bowl and stir in the icing sugar, a spoonful at a time, until the icing falls thickly from the spoon.
6. Whisk with an electric whisk for 10 minutes or until the icing stands up in stiff peaks, then stir in the glycerine.
7. Spread the icing all over the cake using a palette knife.
8. Leave the cake overnight for the icing to dry out before placing it in a container till needed.
